
1. What type would you choose for the following “numbers”?
A person’s telephone number
String
A person’s height
Double
A person’s age
uint
A person’s gender (Male, Female, Prefer Not To Answer)
Byte
A person’s salary
Uint
A book’s ISBN
String
A book’s price
float
A book’s shipping weight
double
A country’s population
ulong
The number of stars in the universe
ulong
The number of employees in each of the small or medium businesses in the
United Kingdom (up to about 50,000 employees per business)
ushort
2. What are the difference between value type and reference type variables? What is
boxing and unboxing?
1.Value type directly hold the value, while reference type will hold the memory address for this value
2.value Type are stored in stack memory and reference type are stored in heap memory
3.Value type will not be collected by garbage collector, while reference type will be collected by garbage collector

Boxing is the converstion from value type to reference type, unboxing is the opposite
3. What is meant by the terms managed resource and unmanaged resource in .NET

Managed resources mean heap memory controlled by GC, While unmanaged one are those heap memory not directly controlled by GC. Ususally need to call Dispose()
to release memory.

4. Whats the purpose of Garbage Collector in .NET?

GC is to automatically manage the memory used by .NET applications, freeing up memory that is no longer being used so it can be reused by the
application or other processes running on the computer. GC helps to avoid memory-related errors such as memory leaks,where memory is not released
properly by the application. This can help developer write more reliable and stable application.



Test your Knowledge
1. What happens when you divide an int variable by 0?

compiler error


2. What happens when you divide a double variable by 0?

infinity output


3. What happens when you overflow an int variable, that is, set it to a value beyond its
range?

compiler error


4. What is the difference between x = y++; and x = ++y;?

++y is prefix, which adds the value before processing the data, y++ is postfix which process the data first before adds the value

5. What is the difference between break, continue, and return when used inside a loop
statement?

 break will jump out of loop and executing rest of the program
 contunue will keep iterating the loop
 return will terminate the program

6. What are the three parts of a for statement and which of them are required?

initialization, ending condition, increment

7. What is the difference between the = and == operators?

'=' is for assignment, '==' is boolean comparison

8. Does the following statement compile? for ( ; true; ) ;

YES, It does compile

9. What does the underscore _ represent in a switch expression?

similar to using 'default'

10. What interface must an object implement to be enumerated over by using the foreach
statement?
IEnumerable

